.TH nsvc 8 "Jan 19, 2010"
.SH NAME
nsvc \- control ninit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsvc
[ -Sservice ]
[
.B \-[uodgpchaitkorRDCLHVWZE]
] 
.I service
[\fI...\fR]
.br
.B nsvc  -Ppid
.I service
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nsvc
is the management interface to ninit.
.I service
is the service directory name relative to /etc/ninit.  
You can also include /etc/ninit/ in the service name.
.PP
Each service directory contains control files.
They are described on 
.I http://riemann.fmi.uni-sofia.bg/ninit/

.PP
It is possible to make nsvc SUID.
.PP
.RS
.B chown root.root /bin/nsvc
.br
.B chmod 4711 /bin/nsvc
.RE
.PP
Then nsvc opens the pipes
.IR /etc/ninit/in , 
.I /etc/ninit/out 
and switches to real UID.
If UID is nonzero only limited set of operation are allowed.
.
.SH OPTIONS
If no options are given,
.B nsvc
will just print a diagnostic message to stdout, saying if the
service is up, down or finished, which PID it has if it is up, and for
how long it has been in this state.

Only the service name 
.B ALL 
means all services.

.TP
.B \-Sservice
Skip service.  Apply this option immediately after
.B nsvc.  
Don't insert space between S and service.
Examples:
.br
.B nsvc
\-Sngetty \-Ssshd \-Slogger \-d ALL
.br
.B nsvc
\-Sngetty \-W3 ALL || 
.B nsvc
\-Sngetty \-k ALL

.TP
.B \-u \-uNumber
Up.
If the service is not running, start it.
If the service stops, restart it.  If
.B Number
is nonzero and the service is down start it after
.B Number
seconds.
.TP
.B \-o \-oNumber
Once.
If the service is down, start it.
If the service stops, do not restart it.
If
.B Number
is nonzero and the service is down, start it after
.B Number
seconds; if it is up, restart it later.
.TP
.B \-d
Down.
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal and then a CONT signal.
After it stops, do not restart it.
.TP
.B \-r
Stop respawn.  
Set respawn flag to OFF.  This does not start/stop the service.
.TP
.B \-R
Start respawn.  
Set respawn flag to ON.  This does not start/stop the service.
.TP
.B \-p
Pause.
Send the service a STOP signal.
.TP
.B \-c
Continue.
Send the service a CONT signal.
.TP
.B \-h
Hangup.
Send the service a HUP signal.
.TP
.B \-a
Alarm.
Send the service an ALRM signal.
.TP
.B \-i
Interrupt.
Send the service an INT signal.
.TP
.B \-t
Terminate.
Send the service a TERM signal.
.TP
.B \-k
Terminate.
Send the service a KILL signal.
.TP
.B \-g 
Get.  Output just the PID.
.TP
.B \-Ppid \fIservice\fR
Set pid of service.
.TP
.B \-D \fIservice\fR
Print dependencies.
This will print all the names of all the services that were started
because this services depended on them.  Example:
.br
.B nsvc -D default
.TP
.B \-D
Print ninit memory usage statistics.
.TP
.B \-H
Print history.
This will print the names of some recently spawned processes.
This is useful if you see a process looping (initialization fails and
ninit is restarting it all the time).
.TP
.B \-L
Print all services loaded in memory.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version
.TP
.B \-Wnumber
Wait at most 
.B number
seconds service(s) to finish.  Example:
.br
.B nsvc \-d qmail
.br
.B nsvc \-W180 qmail || nsvc -k qmail
.TP
.B \-Cnumber \-C+number
Tell ninit that the service is in CRON mode.
If 
.B number 
is zero it disables CRON mode.  Let now=`date +%s`.
If 
.B number < now 
then ninit starts the service immediately,
otherwise ninit will start it latter.  
The flag
.B \-C+number
(if the
.B number 
is positive)
is equaivalent to the following:
.br
.B t=`expr now + number`
.br
.B nsvc -C$t ...

To stop foo,
which is in CRON mode do:
.br
.B nsvc -C0 foo
.br
.B nsvc -d foo
.br
.\" To see the next CRON timestamp of foo type:
.\" .B nsvc foo
.TP
.B \-Z \-Znumber
Zero (free) a service.  This is done with the ninit-reload program.
Example:
.br
.B nsvc -Z30 foo
.br
This removes foo (if such a service exists)
and prepares ninit to accept 30 new services approximately.
.TP
.B \-E \-Enumber
Update ninit environ.  This is done by ninit-reload program.
Example: 
.br
.B nsvc \-E36 ABC=12 UVW
.br
This updates the variable 
.B ABC 
and removes 
.B UVW.
It prepares ninit to accept 36 new services approximately.
See the environ with:
.br
.B tr '\\\\000' '\\\\012' < /proc/1/environ 

.
.SH "RETURN CODES"
Generally, 
.B nsvc 
returns zero if everything is OK or 1 on error (could not
open /etc/ninit/in or /etc/ninit/out or there is no process with the
given name).  In diagnostic mode, it will exit 0 if the service is up, 2
if it is down or 3 if it is finished.

.
.SH "ENVIRON"
.B nsvc
uses the variables 
.B NINIT_MEMORY 
and 
.B NINIT_HOME. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ninit(8), ninit-scan(8)
.br
ninit-shutdown(8), nkillall(8), svc(8), msvc(8)
