.TH ninit-reload 8 "Dec 28, 2009"
.SH NAME
ninit\-relaod \- replace running ninit with a new version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ninit\-reload 
[options] [/path/to/ninit] [ninit_options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ninit\-reload
is used to replace a running ninit with a new version.

It tries to retrieve the state information about running services from
ninit, then have ninit replace itself with the new version and
restore the stored state information.

.SH OPTIONS
Unless the \-u option is given, ninit\-reload assumes you are running
in test mode.
.TP
\-v
verbose operation
.TP
\-u
update mode
.TP
\-m
dump ninit memory buffer to stdout
.TP
\-d
dump services data to stdout
.TP
\-R
.I service
.br
remove 
.I service
from active list
.TP
\-r
.I number
.br
remove 
service with
.I number
from active list.  Example:
.RS
	ninit\-reload -v /sbin/ninit
.br
	ninit\-reload -v -r 3 -R qmail -u /sbin/ninit
.RE
.TP
\-e
.I string
.br
update ninit environ.  Example: 
.br
.B ninit\-reload -v -e ABC=12 -e UVW -u /sbin/ninit
.br
This updates the variable 
.B ABC 
and removes 
.B UVW.
See the environ after that with:
.B tr '\\\\000' '\\\\012' < /proc/1/environ 
.TP
\-E
.I file
.br
update ninit environ using
.I file.
The syntax for 
.I file 
is the same as in the file 
.I environ
for services.
.TP
\-a
.I number
.br
reload ninit and calculate memory buffer to 
.I number
additional services.  Check the result with:
.B ps axww.
.TP
\-t
.I time_diff
.br
add 
.I time_diff 
seconds to each service.  Useful if you change the time with hwclock.
.I time_diff 
can also be a negative number.
.TP
\-f 
.I data_file
.br
don't retrieve services from ninit.  Use this file instead.
For example you can start:
.PP
.RS
	ninit-reload -d > /tmp/ninit.data
.br
	ninit-reload -v -u -f /tmp/ninit.data /sbin/ninit
.RE
.PP

.SH "ENVIRON"
.B ninit\-reload
uses the variables 
.B NINIT_MEMORY 
and 
.B NINIT_HOME. 


.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was partially written by Erich Schubert <erich@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux operating system.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ninit(8), nsvc(8)
