.TH ninit-runlevel 8 "Jan 16, 2010"
.SH NAME
ninit-runlevel 
\- set runlevels for compatibility with SysVinit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ninit-runlevel
.B LEVEL
[OPTION]... [-] [NAME=VALUE]... [PROGRAM [ARG]...]
.br
.B ninit-runlevel
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ninit-runlevel
is a helper program to start service (script, program) with the same
environ as SysVinit.  It also modifies the files
.I /var/run/utmp
and
.I /var/log/wtmp
writing runlevel records in them.  
It is used mainly in ninit-inittab(8) output script.

It sets the following variables:
INIT_VERSION=2.86,
CONSOLE=/dev/console,
RUNLEVEL,
PREVLEVEL,
PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/usr/sbin.
The variable NINIT_RUNLEVEL always has the same value
as RUNLEVEL.
The program does not modify or reset the variable INIT_HALT.

.SH OPTIONS
Actually  
.B ninit\-runlevel
has the same syntax between 
.B LEVEL
and
.B PROGRAM
as the command env(1).

If 
.B ninit-runlevel
is started as a service you can use 
.I environ 
file 
to set some environment variables.
However in this case 
.B ninit-runlevel
overwrites the variables:
INIT_VERSION,
CONSOLE,
RUNLEVEL,
PREVLEVEL,
PATH
and NINIT_RUNLEVEL.
You can reset some of them, for example PATH.
.TP
\-i
start with an empty environment
.br
a mere - implies -i
.TP
\-u 
.I variable
.br
remove the
.I variable 
from the environment

.SH "EXAMPLES"
In the next examples we modify PATH, INIT_HALT and CONSOLE

.B ninit-runlevel S 
PATH=/sbin:/bin /etc/rc.d/rc.single
.br
.B ninit-runlevel 0 
INIT_HALT=POWERDOWN -u CONSOLE /etc/rc.d/rc.halt

See the environ with (don't start it as root \-
the program will then modify 
.I /var/run/utmp
)

.B ninit-runlevel 5
/usr/bin/env

.SH WARNING
Don't remove the file 
. I /var/run/utmp
if you want correct PREVLEVEL and RUNLEVEL variables.
.B ninit-runlevel
stores the info about levels there.
.B ninit 
does not use the
.I  /var/run/utmp
file, nor PREVLEVEL, RUNLEVEL, NINIT_RUNLEVEL.

.SH "FILES"
.I /var/run/utmp
.br
.I /var/log/wtmp

.SH "SEE ALSO"
utmp(5), env(1), runlevel(8)
.br
ninit(8), ninit\-sysvinit(8), ninit\-shutdown(8), ninit\-inittab(8)
.br
init(1), shutdown(8), reboot(8), halt(8)
