.TH ninit\-scan 8 "Jan 19, 2010"
.SH NAME
ninit\-scan \- scan directory and start/stop services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ninit\-scan
[
.B \-[uod]
] 
.I services_directory
.I ninit_home
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ninit\-scan
scans  a  directory  to start/stop a collection of services.  
 
Service definitions are installed, configured and activated  as  subdi-
rectories  of the 
.I services_directory.  
As ninit\-scan sequentially scans the 
.I services_directory, 
it looks for subdirectory names not beginning with `.'.   If
ninit\-scan then finds the `sticky' bit set on the subdirectory, 
it considers the service definition ``active'' and 
attempts to start/stop the corrsponding service.

            

.SH OPTIONS
If no option is given 
.B ninit\-scan 
try to start the service in respawn ON or OFF mode
depending on the existence of the file 
.B respawn
in the service subdirectory.

.TP
.B \-u
Up.
If the service is not running, start it.
If the service stops, restart it. 
.TP
.B \-o
Once.
If the service is down, start it.
If the service stops, do not restart it.
.TP
.B \-d
Down.
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal and then a CONT signal.
After it stops, do not restart it.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B ninit\-scan \-u net /etc/ninit
.br
start all services /etc/ninit/net/* which have `sticky' bit set
in respawn mode.

.B ninit\-scan etc /etc/ninit
.br
start all services /etc/ninit/etc/* which have `sticky' bit 
set.

.B ninit\-scan \-d '' /etc/ninit
.br
stop all services /etc/ninit/* which have `sticky' bit set.

.SH USAGE

This is similar to the file 
.I depends.  
Put in 
.I rsetup
the following:

.B #!/bin/sh
.br
.B exec $2/bin/ninit\-scan $1 $2


The program is shell script.  See the code to understand how it works.
.B ninit\-scan
is designed to permit easy service activation/deactivation  using
the chmod(1) utility.
You can set/unset `sticky' bit with


chmod +t myservice 
.br
chmod \-t myservice 

.SH AUTHOR
Nikola Vladov.
Thanks to Wayne Marshall for the `sticky' bit idea.
.br
.I http://b0llix.net/perp/

.SH SEE ALSO
ninit(8), nsvc(8), perpd(8), chmod(1)
