.TH ninit-shutdown 8 "Dec 28, 2009"
.SH NAME
ninit-shutdown \- shutdown the ninit init system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ninit-shutdown 
\-[\fIrhoqvstmST\fR] [\-E /path/to/program [arg1 arg2 ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ninit-shutdown
tries to properly shutdown your system with ninit.

.SH USAGE
.TP 9
\-r
reboot after shutdown
.TP
\-h
halt after shutdown
.TP
\-o
power-off after shutdown (default)
.TP
\-q
quiet mode;  ignores SIGINT signal;  Ctrl-C does't work!
.TP
\-v
be verbose
.TP
\-m
only shutdown the ninit-part and exit
.TP
\-s \fIsecs\fR 
starting delay
.TP
\-t \fIsecs\fR
delay between SIGTERM and SIGKILL
.TP
\-E \fIprog\fR
execute \fIprog\fR after KILLALL;  must be the last option!
.TP
\-T \fIsecs\fR
if \fIsecs\fR is nonzero shutdown twice ninit part
.TP
\-S \fIabcd\fR
skip to shutdown the service \fIabcd\fR

.SH NOTES
If the flags -m and -E are off then the program starts the service
.I halt 
or 
.I reboot 
depending of the flags -h -o  and -r respectively.

If the flags -E and -m are on then 
.B ninit-shutdown 
execve(2)s the
\fIprog\fR after shutting down the ninit-part.

If the flag -E is on and the flag -m is off then 
.B ninit-shutdown
execve(2)s
the \fIprog\fR after sending SIGTERM and SIGKILL to all processes.

.B ninit-shutdown
clears respawn/cron flags on all services
including those skipped with -S flag.

.
.SH "ENVIRON"
.B ninit-shutdown
uses the variables 
.B NINIT_MEMORY 
and 
.B NINIT_HOME. 

.SH AUTHOR
.B ninit 
was written by Nikola Vladov and can be downloaded from
.br
.I http://riemann.frmi.uni-sofia.bg/ninit/

Parts of
.B ninit-shutdown
were contributed by Bernd Wachter.
.br
Parts of this manpage was written by Erich Schubert.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ninit(8), nsvc(8), execve(2), nkillall(8)
